README.md, before:

<!--
<meta>
the purpose of this doc is to expand on our YC Startup School Application
see: https://github.com/nelsonic/nelsonic.github.io/issues/511
Each section begins with the question on the YC SS Form
and gives additional context and supporting info.
</meta>
-->

# Project/Company Name: `home`<sup>1</sup>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44024208-944f38da-9ee4-11e8-9f89-6eacd8a03d31.png)

<sup>1</sup> **`home`** is our "working title"; we open to suggestions!
We have discussed crowd-sourcing the name from our community,
but for now, this is easier and it kinda "works" for what we are doing.
There is built-in "brand recognition"
in the expression "Working from **`home`**".


## Company URL?

I intend to make this doc available as a "landing page" on
https://dwyl.com/home
with each section anchored so that we can link to it from the `<textarea>`
sections of the YC SS Application form.
For an example of this, see



## Description

> Describe your company in a sentence or two. `<input maxlength="60">``

We are a Female Founder-Focussed Co-Living/Learning Home [57 characters]

![female-founder-conference-qa](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026506-3030c5c4-9eeb-11e8-9890-ef01a95fe450.png)

We want to be on this stage in a a few years time
and we want to help accelerate the ascent of other female founders.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/38866458-cc9ee126-4238-11e8-9760-f4ca0bab4cfb.png)
@iteles practicing her public speaking at St. Andrews Enterprise week: <br />

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44027124-42408c7a-9eed-11e8-8c20-129a21f9aa39.png)
via: https://standrewsbusinessclub.co.uk/st-andrews-university-enterprise-week-2017-keynote-event/







# tl;dr

We like to think of **`home`** as a "***Pre-YC***"
place to learn creative/coding skills,
discover like-minded people and focus on solving big problems.
Our aim is to help people have a solid foundation
to launch into a career in tech
either as an engineer or founder!
We believe that having a female-founder-focus
is _essential_ for achieving "balance" in the tech industry
and is congruent with YC's mission.

_Please_ give us a space on Startup School
so that we can benefit from mentorship and
be part of your _incredible_ network.

_Thank you_!


## Why?




## What?

The saying goes: **`home`** is "where the heart is". <br />
We intend to _extend_ this definition to include:

+ **`home`** is where you feel _welcome_, _loved_ and _happy_.
+ **`home`** is where you can _learn and flourish_
  in a "***safe space***".
+ **`home`** is where you can _focus_ on your health, nutrition and well-being.
+ **`home`** is where people go to get _work done_.
+ **`home`** is where you can practice making "_something people **want**._"


During Startup School we intend to build the **App**
to help us **_measure_ everything** in the **`home`** community.

Areas we are hoping to explore include:
+ "**Customer Acquisition**" - finding the like-minded people who
want to live, learn and work in a co-living environment.
+ Measuring and Optimising for _Happiness_ (_see: "**OMTM**" section below_)
+ **Promoting learning** and sharing of knowledge/skill without fear of
intimidation through "_brogrammer_" behaviour.
+ **Security Systems** both physical and virtual for accessing the building.
+ **Sleep, Nutrition & Exercise tracking**
to promote a healthy "_personal foundation_"
We have experience building apps in this space for others
e.g: https://github.com/healthlocker/healthlocker
+ **Share Responsibility** for resources and avoid "tragedy of the commons".

As you can tell from this list, we have "lots of ideas". <br />
We want/need _Help_/_Mentoring_ from a YC partner
to know where to focus our attention.



### Female Focussed?

We intend to direct all of our content towards female founders
because we feel they are an underserved group.
YC's demographics https://blog.ycombinator.com/yc-demographics
indicate that fewer than 25% of startups have one or more female founders:

> "_Of the founders we funded in our most recent batch,
11.1% of the founders are women
(about 23% of the startups have one or more female founders),
3.7% of the founders are Hispanic, and 4% of the founders are Black. "
> "_The bad news, of course, is that applicant percentages
are low relative to the entire population._"

We want to be part of the solution to this:
https://techcrunch.com/2017/03/20/y-combinator-diversity-2017



This is a problem we have _personally_ felt while working in Tech.
And it's one our female members _continue_ to feel as tech
is still overwhelmingly male-dominated
and _still_ has "bad apples" spoiling it for others.



#### Will We _Exclude_ Men?


No, we have no intention of _excluding_ or making men
(_or people who identify as male or non-binary_) feel "_unwelcome_",
much to the contrary,
_everyone_ is welcome regardless gender, ethnicity/race, sex,
politics or religion.

The only _pre-requisites_ are that:
+ people are here to "be nice".
+ share knowledge/experience freely.
+ don't make others feel "uncomfortable" with what you say or do.
+ macho ("bro-like"/intimidating) behaviour will not be tolerated;
["_Brogrammers_"](https://www.google.com/search?q=brogrammer) need not apply.
see: https://github.com/dwyl/code-of-conduct

> "_Sexism in tech is real._" ~ Sam Altman
https://blog.ycombinator.com/diversity-and-startups

Female founders and tech workers often feel "_unwelcome_"
in a male-dominated world, we are going address this _head on_.

From our experience in the Tech Industry,
both running Founders & Coders and Working as Developers/Engineers
in several companies,
we have seen/felt first-hand how a **_small minority_ of _men_**
are condescending/intimidating towards ladies and minorities,
we will address this



### One Metric That Matters ["OMTM"]: _Happiness_

> “_It really is true, the company will build
whatever the CEO decides to measure._” ~ Sam Altman
via: https://medium.com/how-to-start-a-startup/47-quotes-from-sam-altman-on-building-a-great-product-51aa656952ab

Our short-to medium-term metric is "_Happiness_".
We want to make "_Happiness_" our primary KPI because
we know that by measuring and optimising for happiness _first_
any other goals will be achievable.


We realise that "_Happiness_" is a subjective measure
however we intend to make it _quantifiable_
in the same way that there is a "World Happiness Report":
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Happiness_Report
we intend to do that for our company/project
and make it available for others too!



This does not mean there won't be _disagreements_ and even _conflicts_.
What it means is that _everyone_ involved knows what we are "_optimising for_",
and can act accordingly.


We have already begun to make some progress on this.
see: https://github.com/dwyl/feedback
It's our _anonymous_ MVP on: https://dwyl-feedback.herokuapp.com/feedback/new
![feedback-form](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026238-4955d5ea-9eea-11e8-86b1-7e26ae69ea72.png)


A _variant_ on measuring Happiness is measuring the extent to which
people are "_Doing What You Love_".
We believe in this _strongly_ to the extent that our _current_ company
is called "DWYL" ... see: https://github.com/dwyl/start-here


The _reason_ we are not trying to measure "dwyl-ness"
is because sometimes to do something you love,
you have to _fund_ it doing a job you don't necessarily love.
PG put it best:

> "_The test of whether people love what they do is whether
they'd do it even if they weren't paid for it even if they
had to work at another job to make a living._"
"How To Do What You Love" http://www.paulgraham.com/love.html Paul Graham, 2006

Some of the people living/working at **`home`** will fall into the category
of "work at another job",
so measuring their overall happiness is a more accurate metric.


### Why "It Will _Never_ Work" (Risks and Mitigation)

<!--
I learned about adding a "Why You Should NOT Invest" section to a pitch
from reading "Orginals" by Adam Grant.
It puts people "off guard" if you *explicitly* identify your "weaknesses"
and shows that you have considered the "risks" and how to mitigate them.
-->

There are _several_ risks of creating a co-living home/community
any of which can "sink the ship", we need to be aware of and address them all.

From our background in "Enterprise Risk Management",
we are trained to think in terms of hyperbolic headlines
and worst-case scenarios.

This list is ordered in terms of their probability and potential impact:

+ Data miss-management leading to breach, GDPR fines and negative PR.
We intend to apply all the "best practices"
we have learned from building/auditing apps in the Finance and Travel sectors
where personal data protection is
Data will be encrypted
We wrote an example/tutorial on this.
See: https://github.com/dwyl/phoenix-ecto-encryption-example
In addition to both field-level encryption and strong access control,
we intend to perform regular third-party (controlled) penetration tests,
both on-site and remotely to test our security.
Having a house that actively recruits hackers has both pros and cons,
we intend to leverage the pros by inviting our "white hat" personal friends
e.g: Adam Baldwin https://github.com/evilpacket
(head of security **@npm** and
"Security Bug Bounty Hunter") to visit
and hack on our _internal_ network.
Additionally we will setup a "Security Bug Bounty"
(_with responsible disclosure_)
via https://www.hackerone.com
once we have ironed out any "basic bugs" using our team and existing network.

+ Physical access security leading to loss of property.


+ Personal injury (_or death_) from using the facilities.

+ Descent into _chaos_ (_messiness and lack of hygiene_)
  e.g: LikeALittle's Hacker House: https://youtu.be/MAihXfHa7K8
  https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4346049 Circle Inc? (YC W11?)


+ "Alcohol/Drugs-fueled Sex Scandal" ...
No Drugs or Alcohol allowed on the premises.
We don't "control" what people consume when they are _away_ from home,
we just have a rule that they don't bring/consume it within.
This is to avoid _any_ association with being a "party house"
and to prevent a _leading_ cause of personal injury and _death_: intoxication.

+ **Open Sourcing All Code**, won't that _invite competition_?!
We feel that the benefits of having
a **100% Open Source** Community Culture
is aided by and even _requires_ open-sourcing the code.
This will encourage people to contribute to improving the App(s)
which in turn promotes ownership and

> If you can help us think of and address any other risks,
we would love to hear from you!

### Revenue Plans

In the short term we



#### MVP: AirBnB Listing

To generate **_initial_ demand**
(_and get "MVP customer feedback"_) we intend to use AirBnB.
We will keep the amount of detail on our AirBnB listing to a minimum
to "underpromise and over deliver"
and hopefully people will be _pleasantly_ surprised when they arrive.

We will incorporate the feedback of people who find us through AirBnB
into our App and ask people for reviews on Google, TripAdvisor and to post
pictures on their "Social".

We have experience of both listing and "consuming" on AirBnB


#### Digital Nomad Girls (DNG)

We are friends of **Jenny** at https://digitalnomadgirls.com
a network of female-only "Digital Nomads" (remote workers)
who either have their own micro-business
or work for someone else remotely. <br />
Reach: Fb: 8.8K, [Insta: 24.9k](https://www.instagram.com/digitalnomadgirls/),
Tw: 4.5k (August 2018).

We intend to offer places "at cost" to members of DNG
because we know they will help fuel our organic/social traffic
by mentioning (linking to) us on their travel blogs, Instagram and YouTube.


#### Our Existing Social Networks

Inês is a co-organiser of Ladies of Code (London)
https://www.meetup.com/Ladies-of-Code-UK (3K members)
and has access to other female-focussed Meetup networks.
We intend to leverage these to find people who are able to work remotely,
and invite them to stay with and learn with us.


#### Nomad List

Once we have our _basic formula_ working,
we intend to _test_ running ads on https://nomadlist.com
Our hope is that we get enough "_organic_" demand
to not _need_ to run ads.
However given how niche/focussed Nomad List is,
we feel that if we need to generate targeted demand,
this is the route we will take.



#### Y Combinator _Network_

Our ultimate aim is to be part of the Y Combinator Network
because we feel that YC is the best "filter" for the type of people
we want to attract to live, learn and work at **`home`**.


## _Who?_



![ines-and-nelson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185328/44024346-f07ed4c6-9ee4-11e8-9abe-7739cf1dbd88.jpg)


### Why Us?

> "_Let's **solve our own problem** and see where it goes_".﻿
~ Jessica Livingston : How to Build the Future
https://youtu.be/nFOC-cgIWaY?t=5m26s

We have started two companies together a Clothing Company
and an App Development Agency. Both bootstrapped. Both profitable.

We are using the operating surplus from **`@dwyl`** to fund **`home`**.

#### Experience in Training/Coaching Female Founders & Tech Workers?

We have a decent amount of experience of training people from scratch
(_with no previous experience_) to get jobs as developers
or start their own companies.
![founders-and-coders-homepage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44028857-2fa67b0a-9ef3-11e8-93c4-c735bd79f2f9.png)


_Examples_ of companies founded/grown through Founders & Coders:
+ FatLama https://fatlama.com/ (YC S17) - online rental marketplace for equipment
founded by
+ Scrimba https://scrimba.com online coding learning and pair-programming environment
+ Personably

see: https://foundersandcoders.com/about/
![a-way-into-tech-industry-founders-coders](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44007184-f71e0a2e-9e88-11e8-88e2-99261ddc5dc4.png)


#### Experience in Real Estate?

We have previously bought, renovated and rented out 3 homes and feel
we have learned on "small scale". All our property investments have been
cashflow positive.
In our existing rental properties we only have "young professionals"
who aren't "ready" to buy (either because they are establishing themselves
  or unsure if they want to live in the particular city long-term)
we consistently charge _below_ "market rate" and offer above average
fixtures/fittings and amenities. Our _below_ "market clearing price"
means we are _flooded_ with "applicants"
each time someone decides to "move on",
which means the other housemates get to chose from a wide pool of potential.
This has been a "win-win" strategy over the last 7 years and we intend to
adapt it to **`home`**.

To be clear: we don't want to be "landlords", we want to build a community
and be part of _solving_ the housing shortage, not _exacerbate_ it!

Our medium to long-term goal is that people who co-live in the **`home`**
can **co-_own_** the company thus the amount they pay each month
goes towards _ownership_ not "rent". We intend to _explore_ this option
further our 2nd year of operation;
once we have launched our 3rd or 4th **`home`**.



### Modern Decor

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026710-df19a5d8-9eeb-11e8-83dd-90bf8a95a5a6.png)
via: "5 Tips for Choosing a Coliving Space" https://www.thehustlejuice.com/lifestyle/2017/9/12/5-tips-for-choosing-a-coliving-space



#### Previous Experience?

This is our _third_ business together.
Both previous businesses have been profitable and had zero capital.


### Why Portugal and Braga _Specifically_?



### Library of Creativity/Technology/Business Focussed Books?

![good-books](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44006998-8e47427a-9e85-11e8-986a-6d411e3a4e73.png)

http://paulgraham.com/hs.html (What You'll Wish You Had Known) > Now

https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/194400/12869888/02bf0de4-cd24-11e5-96a6-6ab0b9f11ecf.JPG



![working-from-home](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/43996896-071d1e66-9dc5-11e8-93e2-9a4b3fa000c9.png)
http://paulgraham.com/opensource.html > Workplaces

![go-work-for-an-existing-company-for-a-few-years](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/43996934-d3a21540-9dc5-11e8-82af-45e63c219f64.png)
http://paulgraham.com/hiring.html > A Public Service Message




### Precedents

+ Recurse Center: https://www.recurse.com
+ Grokhome: https://www.grokhome.com
+ Hack’N’Sleep https://www.hacknsleep.com
(_affiliated with 500 Startups & Hack Reactor_)
+ Nomad Pass: https://nomadpass.com a listing of several remote-friendly
living/working places around the world.
+ Sun & Co: https://sun-and-co.com (_co-living only no "hacking" component_)

From reading https://yclist.com / http://www.ycombinator.com/companies
it _appears_ that YC has not invested in any other "Co-living" ideas.



![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44027038-f7970f1e-9eec-11e8-9a5e-78032ad5ce1a.png)





# RFS

After reading "Requests for Startups" http://www.ycombinator.com/rfs
we are convinced that our project qualifies for mentorship
in the Startup School program.

Let us highlight the categories which are applicable **`home`**:




## BRICK AND MORTAR 2.0

We are re-purposing an _abandoned_ single-family large (_by European standards_)
house and transforming it into something new.

We are making all of our plans, decisions and outcomes `public`
online https://github.com/dwyl/phase-two/tree/master/braga
so that other people can learn from our mistakes/success
and



## EDUCATION


## DIVERSITY


## FUTURE OF WORK


## LONGEVITY AND ANTI-AGING

## SUPPORTING CREATORS


## TRANSPORTATION & HOUSING

Having a place where you can work without needing to _commute_
and where you have access to an electric bicycles and other
on-demand transport is the future.

While we are not directly addressing `TRANSPORTATION`,
we will make a car available to all members at each house we build.
Our plan is to have one or more electric car(s)



## UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES AND SOCIAL SERVICES


# Other Areas Which Are Not Our _Primary_ Focus:

## A.I



## ROBOTICS

We intend to use






### Universal Basic Income?

https://basicincome.ycr.org/our-plan
https://blog.ycombinator.com/moving-forward-on-basic-income/



### Further/Background Reading/Watching

+ Remote work is “the new normal”. (2018)
https://www.fastcompany.com/40537399/remote-work-is-the-new-normal
+ https://remote.co/10-stats-about-remote-work/
+ Remote Work 2018: https://open.buffer.com/state-remote-work-2018/
+ What's a Hacker House? | Grist: https://youtu.be/Z87meKvOV_0
(_profiles http://www.grokhome.com IO House and cor36_)
+ List of Hackbases: https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/Hackbases
+ What is "Co-living"? https://www.businessinsider.com/what-is-co-living-2017-2
+ Co-living heats up in the U.S.:
Communal-housing startups tap into a millennial need
https://venturebeat.com/2017/12/24/co-living-heats-up-in-the-u-s-communal-housing-startups-tap-into-a-millennial-need/
+ WeLive ? https://www.welive.com
+ IKEA Co-living?
https://www.dezeen.com/2017/11/14/one-shared-house-2030-ikea-space10-lab-anton-irene-co-living-website-platform/
+ History of Co-living:
https://issuu.com/lisainteriors/docs/design_studio_research

Commit message:

add sample AirBnB listing for https://github.com/nelsonic/nelsonic.github.io/issues/511

README.md, after:

<!--
<meta>
the purpose of this doc is to expand on our YC Startup School Application
see: https://github.com/nelsonic/nelsonic.github.io/issues/511
Each section begins with the question on the YC SS Form
and gives additional context and supporting info.
</meta>
-->

# Project/Company Name: `home`<sup>1</sup>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44024208-944f38da-9ee4-11e8-9f89-6eacd8a03d31.png)

<sup>1</sup> **`home`** is our "working title"; we open to suggestions!
We have discussed crowd-sourcing the name from our community,
but for now, this is easier and it kinda "works" for what we are doing.
There is built-in "brand recognition"
in the expression "Working from **`home`**".


## Company URL?

I intend to make this doc available as a "landing page" on
https://dwyl.com/home
with each section anchored so that we can link to it from the `<textarea>`
sections of the YC SS Application form.
For an example of this, see



## Description

> Describe your company in a sentence or two. `<input maxlength="60">``

We are a Female Founder-Focussed Co-Living/Learning Home [57 characters]

![female-founder-conference-qa](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026506-3030c5c4-9eeb-11e8-9890-ef01a95fe450.png)

We want to be on this stage in a a few years time
and we want to help accelerate the ascent of other female founders.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/38866458-cc9ee126-4238-11e8-9760-f4ca0bab4cfb.png)
@iteles practicing her public speaking at St. Andrews Enterprise week: <br />

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44027124-42408c7a-9eed-11e8-8c20-129a21f9aa39.png)
via: https://standrewsbusinessclub.co.uk/st-andrews-university-enterprise-week-2017-keynote-event/







# tl;dr

We like to think of **`home`** as a "***Pre-YC***"
place to learn creative/coding skills,
discover like-minded people and focus on solving big problems.
Our aim is to help people have a solid foundation
to launch into a career in tech
either as an engineer or founder!
We believe that having a female-founder-focus
is _essential_ for achieving "balance" in the tech industry
and is congruent with YC's mission.

_Please_ give us a space on Startup School
so that we can benefit from mentorship and
be part of your _incredible_ network.

_Thank you_!


## Why?




## What?

The saying goes: **`home`** is "where the heart is". <br />
We intend to _extend_ this definition to include:

+ **`home`** is where you feel _welcome_, _loved_ and _happy_.
+ **`home`** is where you can _learn and flourish_
  in a "***safe space***".
+ **`home`** is where you can _focus_ on your health, nutrition and well-being.
+ **`home`** is where people go to get _work done_.
+ **`home`** is where you can practice making "_something people **want**._"


During Startup School we intend to build the **App**
to help us **_measure_ everything** in the **`home`** community.

Areas we are hoping to explore include:
+ "**Customer Acquisition**" - finding the like-minded people who
want to live, learn and work in a co-living environment.
+ Measuring and Optimising for _Happiness_ (_see: "**OMTM**" section below_)
+ **Promoting learning** and sharing of knowledge/skill without fear of
intimidation through "_brogrammer_" behaviour.
+ **Security Systems** both physical and virtual for accessing the building.
+ **Sleep, Nutrition & Exercise tracking**
to promote a healthy "_personal foundation_"
We have experience building apps in this space for others
e.g: https://github.com/healthlocker/healthlocker
+ **Share Responsibility** for resources and avoid "tragedy of the commons".

As you can tell from this list, we have "lots of ideas". <br />
We want/need _Help_/_Mentoring_ from a YC partner
to know where to focus our attention.



### Female Focussed?

We intend to direct all of our content towards female founders
because we feel they are an underserved group.
YC's demographics https://blog.ycombinator.com/yc-demographics
indicate that fewer than 25% of startups have one or more female founders:

> "_Of the founders we funded in our most recent batch,
11.1% of the founders are women
(about 23% of the startups have one or more female founders),
3.7% of the founders are Hispanic, and 4% of the founders are Black. "
> "_The bad news, of course, is that applicant percentages
are low relative to the entire population._"

We want to be part of the solution to this:
https://techcrunch.com/2017/03/20/y-combinator-diversity-2017



This is a problem we have _personally_ felt while working in Tech.
And it's one our female members _continue_ to feel as tech
is still overwhelmingly male-dominated
and _still_ has "bad apples" spoiling it for others.



#### Will We _Exclude_ Men?


No, we have no intention of _excluding_ or making men
(_or people who identify as male or non-binary_) feel "_unwelcome_",
much to the contrary,
_everyone_ is welcome regardless gender, ethnicity/race, sex,
politics or religion.

The only _pre-requisites_ are that:
+ people are here to "be nice".
+ share knowledge/experience freely.
+ don't make others feel "uncomfortable" with what you say or do.
+ macho ("bro-like"/intimidating) behaviour will not be tolerated;
["_Brogrammers_"](https://www.google.com/search?q=brogrammer) need not apply.
see: https://github.com/dwyl/code-of-conduct

> "_Sexism in tech is real._" ~ Sam Altman
https://blog.ycombinator.com/diversity-and-startups

Female founders and tech workers often feel "_unwelcome_"
in a male-dominated world, we are going address this _head on_.

From our experience in the Tech Industry,
both running Founders & Coders and Working as Developers/Engineers
in several companies,
we have seen/felt first-hand how a **_small minority_ of _men_**
are condescending/intimidating towards ladies and minorities,
we will address this



### One Metric That Matters ["OMTM"]: _Happiness_

> “_It really is true, the company will build
whatever the CEO decides to measure._” ~ Sam Altman
via: https://medium.com/how-to-start-a-startup/47-quotes-from-sam-altman-on-building-a-great-product-51aa656952ab

Our short-to medium-term metric is "_Happiness_".
We want to make "_Happiness_" our primary KPI because
we know that by measuring and optimising for happiness _first_
any other goals will be achievable.


We realise that "_Happiness_" is a subjective measure
however we intend to make it _quantifiable_
in the same way that there is a "World Happiness Report":
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Happiness_Report
we intend to do that for our company/project
and make it available for others too!



This does not mean there won't be _disagreements_ and even _conflicts_.
What it means is that _everyone_ involved knows what we are "_optimising for_",
and can act accordingly.


We have already begun to make some progress on this.
see: https://github.com/dwyl/feedback
It's our _anonymous_ MVP on: https://dwyl-feedback.herokuapp.com/feedback/new
![feedback-form](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026238-4955d5ea-9eea-11e8-86b1-7e26ae69ea72.png)


A _variant_ on measuring Happiness is measuring the extent to which
people are "_Doing What You Love_".
We believe in this _strongly_ to the extent that our _current_ company
is called "DWYL" ... see: https://github.com/dwyl/start-here


The _reason_ we are not trying to measure "dwyl-ness"
is because sometimes to do something you love,
you have to _fund_ it doing a job you don't necessarily love.
PG put it best:

> "_The test of whether people love what they do is whether
they'd do it even if they weren't paid for it even if they
had to work at another job to make a living._"
"How To Do What You Love" http://www.paulgraham.com/love.html Paul Graham, 2006

Some of the people living/working at **`home`** will fall into the category
of "work at another job",
so measuring their overall happiness is a more accurate metric.


### Why "It Will _Never_ Work" (Risks and Mitigation)

<!--
I learned about adding a "Why You Should NOT Invest" section to a pitch
from reading "Orginals" by Adam Grant.
It puts people "off guard" if you *explicitly* identify your "weaknesses"
and shows that you have considered the "risks" and how to mitigate them.
-->

There are _several_ risks of creating a co-living home/community
any of which can "sink the ship", we need to be aware of and address them all.

From our background in "Enterprise Risk Management",
we are trained to think in terms of hyperbolic headlines
and worst-case scenarios.

This list is ordered in terms of their probability and potential impact:

+ Data miss-management leading to breach, GDPR fines and negative PR.
We intend to apply all the "best practices"
we have learned from building/auditing apps in the Finance and Travel sectors
where personal data protection is
Data will be encrypted
We wrote an example/tutorial on this.
See: https://github.com/dwyl/phoenix-ecto-encryption-example
In addition to both field-level encryption and strong access control,
we intend to perform regular third-party (controlled) penetration tests,
both on-site and remotely to test our security.
Having a house that actively recruits hackers has both pros and cons,
we intend to leverage the pros by inviting our "white hat" personal friends
e.g: Adam Baldwin https://github.com/evilpacket
(head of security **@npm** and
"Security Bug Bounty Hunter") to visit
and hack on our _internal_ network.
Additionally we will setup a "Security Bug Bounty"
(_with responsible disclosure_)
via https://www.hackerone.com
once we have ironed out any "basic bugs" using our team and existing network.

+ Physical access security leading to loss of property.


+ Personal injury (_or death_) from using the facilities.

+ Descent into _chaos_ (_messiness and lack of hygiene_)
  e.g: LikeALittle's Hacker House: https://youtu.be/MAihXfHa7K8
  https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4346049 Circle Inc? (YC W11?)


+ "Alcohol/Drugs-fueled Sex Scandal" ...
No Drugs or Alcohol allowed on the premises.
We don't "control" what people consume when they are _away_ from home,
we just have a rule that they don't bring/consume it within.
This is to avoid _any_ association with being a "party house"
and to prevent a _leading_ cause of personal injury and _death_: intoxication.

+ **Open Sourcing All Code**, won't that _invite competition_?!
We feel that the benefits of having
a **100% Open Source** Community Culture
is aided by and even _requires_ open-sourcing the code.
This will encourage people to contribute to improving the App(s)
which in turn promotes ownership and

> If you can help us think of and address any other risks,
we would love to hear from you!

### Revenue Plans

In the short term we



#### MVP: AirBnB Listing

To generate **_initial_ demand**
(_and get "MVP customer feedback"_) we intend to use AirBnB.
We will keep the amount of detail on our AirBnB listing to a minimum
to "underpromise and over deliver"
and hopefully people will be _pleasantly_ surprised when they arrive.

We will incorporate the feedback of people who find us through AirBnB
into our App and ask people for reviews on Google, TripAdvisor and to post
pictures on their "Social".

We have experience of both listing and "consuming" on AirBnB


#### Digital Nomad Girls (DNG)

We are friends of **Jenny** at https://digitalnomadgirls.com
a network of female-only "Digital Nomads" (remote workers)
who either have their own micro-business
or work for someone else remotely. <br />
Reach: Fb: 8.8K, [Insta: 24.9k](https://www.instagram.com/digitalnomadgirls/),
Tw: 4.5k (August 2018).

We intend to offer places "at cost" to members of DNG
because we know they will help fuel our organic/social traffic
by mentioning (linking to) us on their travel blogs, Instagram and YouTube.


#### Our Existing Social Networks

Inês is a co-organiser of Ladies of Code (London)
https://www.meetup.com/Ladies-of-Code-UK (3K members)
and has access to other female-focussed Meetup networks.
We intend to leverage these to find people who are able to work remotely,
and invite them to stay with and learn with us.


#### Nomad List

Once we have our _basic formula_ working,
we intend to _test_ running ads on https://nomadlist.com
Our hope is that we get enough "_organic_" demand
to not _need_ to run ads.
However given how niche/focussed Nomad List is,
we feel that if we need to generate targeted demand,
this is the route we will take.



#### Y Combinator _Network_

Our ultimate aim is to be part of the Y Combinator Network
because we feel that YC is the best "filter" for the type of people
we want to attract to live, learn and work at **`home`**.


## _Who?_



![ines-and-nelson](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185328/44024346-f07ed4c6-9ee4-11e8-9abe-7739cf1dbd88.jpg)


### Why Us?

> "_Let's **solve our own problem** and see where it goes_".﻿
~ Jessica Livingston : How to Build the Future
https://youtu.be/nFOC-cgIWaY?t=5m26s

We have started two companies together a Clothing Company
and an App Development Agency. Both bootstrapped. Both profitable.

We are using the operating surplus from **`@dwyl`** to fund **`home`**.

#### Experience in Training/Coaching Female Founders & Tech Workers?

We have a decent amount of experience of training people from scratch
(_with no previous experience_) to get jobs as developers
or start their own companies.
![founders-and-coders-homepage](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44028857-2fa67b0a-9ef3-11e8-93c4-c735bd79f2f9.png)


_Examples_ of companies founded/grown through Founders & Coders:
+ FatLama https://fatlama.com/ (YC S17) - online rental marketplace for equipment
founded by
+ Scrimba https://scrimba.com online coding learning and pair-programming environment
+ Personably

see: https://foundersandcoders.com/about/
![a-way-into-tech-industry-founders-coders](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44007184-f71e0a2e-9e88-11e8-88e2-99261ddc5dc4.png)


#### Experience in Real Estate?

We have previously bought, renovated and rented out 3 homes and feel
we have learned on "small scale". All our property investments have been
cashflow positive.
In our existing rental properties we only have "young professionals"
who aren't "ready" to buy (either because they are establishing themselves
  or unsure if they want to live in the particular city long-term)
we consistently charge _below_ "market rate" and offer above average
fixtures/fittings and amenities. Our _below_ "market clearing price"
means we are _flooded_ with "applicants"
each time someone decides to "move on",
which means the other housemates get to chose from a wide pool of potential.
This has been a "win-win" strategy over the last 7 years and we intend to
adapt it to **`home`**.

This is a sample of _one_ of our AirBnB listings in London:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44030477-d6a1e598-9ef8-11e8-90f4-d0d3cbb7a1af.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44030597-243ebb8c-9ef9-11e8-8a61-8e36eca70242.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44030540-fd57f1b4-9ef8-11e8-9d06-7c1d5c654fb3.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44030560-0c4520ac-9ef9-11e8-816e-825c95c1b3d6.png)

Our listing is "unlisted" because the appartment is long-term rented
while we focus on setting up **`home`**.

To be clear: we don't want to be "landlords", we want to build a community
and be part of _solving_ the housing shortage, not _exacerbate_ it!

Our medium to long-term goal is that people who co-live in the **`home`**
can **co-_own_** the company thus the amount they pay each month
goes towards _ownership_ not "rent". We intend to _explore_ this option
further our 2nd year of operation;
once we have launched our 3rd or 4th **`home`**.





### Modern Decor

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44026710-df19a5d8-9eeb-11e8-83dd-90bf8a95a5a6.png)
via: "5 Tips for Choosing a Coliving Space" https://www.thehustlejuice.com/lifestyle/2017/9/12/5-tips-for-choosing-a-coliving-space



#### Previous Experience?

This is our _third_ business together.
Both previous businesses have been profitable and had zero capital.


### Why Portugal and Braga _Specifically_?



### Library of Creativity/Technology/Business Focussed Books?

![good-books](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44006998-8e47427a-9e85-11e8-986a-6d411e3a4e73.png)

http://paulgraham.com/hs.html (What You'll Wish You Had Known) > Now

https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/194400/12869888/02bf0de4-cd24-11e5-96a6-6ab0b9f11ecf.JPG



![working-from-home](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/43996896-071d1e66-9dc5-11e8-93e2-9a4b3fa000c9.png)
http://paulgraham.com/opensource.html > Workplaces

![go-work-for-an-existing-company-for-a-few-years](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/43996934-d3a21540-9dc5-11e8-82af-45e63c219f64.png)
http://paulgraham.com/hiring.html > A Public Service Message




### Precedents

+ Recurse Center: https://www.recurse.com
+ Grokhome: https://www.grokhome.com
+ Hack’N’Sleep https://www.hacknsleep.com
(_affiliated with 500 Startups & Hack Reactor_)
+ Nomad Pass: https://nomadpass.com a listing of several remote-friendly
living/working places around the world.
+ Sun & Co: https://sun-and-co.com (_co-living only no "hacking" component_)

From reading https://yclist.com / http://www.ycombinator.com/companies
it _appears_ that YC has not invested in any other "Co-living" ideas.



![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/194400/44027038-f7970f1e-9eec-11e8-9a5e-78032ad5ce1a.png)





# RFS

After reading "Requests for Startups" http://www.ycombinator.com/rfs
we are convinced that our project qualifies for mentorship
in the Startup School program.

Let us highlight the categories which are applicable **`home`**:




## BRICK AND MORTAR 2.0

We are re-purposing an _abandoned_ single-family large (_by European standards_)
house and transforming it into something new.

We are making all of our plans, decisions and outcomes `public`
online https://github.com/dwyl/phase-two/tree/master/braga
so that other people can learn from our mistakes/success
and



## EDUCATION


## DIVERSITY


## FUTURE OF WORK


## LONGEVITY AND ANTI-AGING

## SUPPORTING CREATORS


## TRANSPORTATION & HOUSING

Having a place where you can work without needing to _commute_
and where you have access to an electric bicycles and other
on-demand transport is the future.

While we are not directly addressing `TRANSPORTATION`,
we will make a car available to all members at each house we build.
Our plan is to have one or more electric car(s)



## UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES AND SOCIAL SERVICES


# Other Areas Which Are Not Our _Primary_ Focus:

## A.I



## ROBOTICS

We intend to use






### Universal Basic Income?

https://basicincome.ycr.org/our-plan
https://blog.ycombinator.com/moving-forward-on-basic-income/



### Further/Background Reading/Watching

+ Remote work is “the new normal”. (2018)
https://www.fastcompany.com/40537399/remote-work-is-the-new-normal
+ https://remote.co/10-stats-about-remote-work/
+ Remote Work 2018: https://open.buffer.com/state-remote-work-2018/
+ What's a Hacker House? | Grist: https://youtu.be/Z87meKvOV_0
(_profiles http://www.grokhome.com IO House and cor36_)
+ List of Hackbases: https://wiki.hackerspaces.org/Hackbases
+ What is "Co-living"? https://www.businessinsider.com/what-is-co-living-2017-2
+ Co-living heats up in the U.S.:
Communal-housing startups tap into a millennial need
https://venturebeat.com/2017/12/24/co-living-heats-up-in-the-u-s-communal-housing-startups-tap-into-a-millennial-need/
+ WeLive ? https://www.welive.com
+ IKEA Co-living?
https://www.dezeen.com/2017/11/14/one-shared-house-2030-ikea-space10-lab-anton-irene-co-living-website-platform/
+ History of Co-living:
https://issuu.com/lisainteriors/docs/design_studio_research
